1. Microsoft Visual Studio offers a multitude of editions for developing, testing, and deploying applications for the web, desktop, mobile, and even game consoles. With a plethora of testing and compatibility tools, you can test on virtual machines, tap into the functionality of BrowserStack to see what your app looks like across more than 300 browsers, run compatibility reports to identify patterns and issues between browsers and so much more.

2. Eclipse a free, open-source editor that was initially a Java environment but a variety of plug-ins have extended its capabilities considerably. The Eclipse Standard 4.3.2 version, for instance, includes the Eclipse Platform along with the tools required to debug it, plus Java and Plugin Development Tooling and Git and CVS support. If your requirements are different, you can choose from a variety of Eclipse Package Solutions, including tools for Java developers, Scout Developers, RCP and RAP Developers and more.

3. NetBeans an intuitive, drag-and-drop interface with project templates, binary and static libraries, and many useful functions to make your life simpler, NetBeans is a popular IDE for C and C++ projects. It also supports Fortan and Assembler files, with GNU Debugger Integration and code assistance, NetBeans is a functional IDE for editing existing projects, building on templates or building from scratch on most leading platforms. There are also multiple NetBeans Enterprise IDE Download Bundles with options that support several additional technologies, including Java, PHP, HTML5 and more.

4. Komodo IDE is a comprehensive IDE that supports all major programming languages, providing a single tool that meets your development needs across the spectrum. Whether you’re working with Python, PHP, Ruby, Perl, HTML, CSS or JavaScript, Komodo provides a clean, intuitive interface with advanced editing capabilities and integrated tools for the most functionality.  

5. Aptana, recently acquired by Appcelerator, offers one of the most powerful open-source IDEs: Aptana Studo 3. It’s been completely re-built to provide a faster and seamless environment for developing and testing an entire web application using a single environment. Aptana Studio 3 supports all the major browser technology specs, eliminating compatibility and testing challenges to speed your time to deployment. 


For more information about these IDEs and others you can check the source of this information: http://blog.profitbricks.com/top-integrated-developer-environments-ides/ 